Datatypes of variables: 8

Types of variables: 3
There are 3 types of variables in java.
1.Local
2.Instance
3.Static

Local -- created in the method, constructor or block of code.
There are declared when we enter a block of code end are dstroyd as soon as we left or
the block of code:
while
for loop
if condition
switch
{}

Important points:
1.We can not use the access modifiers with local variables
access modifiers: public, default, private, protected
2. Local var are not initilized with default values
They must be initilized before we can access them

When to use local variables:
we should always try to use local variables
because they are destroyed as soon as execution left the block of code
that way we can utilize this memory for other purpose.

Instance variables.
declared in a class but outside of constructors methods or blocks of code
..

Note:
whenever we need to access something in multiple methods or constructors we should use
instance variables but we should always write our logic in such a way to avoid instance variables
because they stay in the memory as long as we reference to our object.

Each object can have own value with instance var

Important points:
we can use access modifiers with instance variables i.e. Private, Default, Protected, Public.
Instance var have default values for
boolean -- false
int -- 0
double -- 0.0
String -- null (reason -- String is class)
Dog -- null (reason -- Dog is class)

Whenever we create an obj of the class a separate memory location
for instance var is declared and we can store different things in those location.

Static
variables are class variables they are declared outside of method constructor or block of code
we use static keyword before specifying the type of variables.
For static var only one memory location is declared in the static area
for all of the objects same memory location is used. These values are same for all objects.

When ii used?
when we have something common for all objects
when all the objects of the same class share a common info

is independent of the objects

What is difference between static and final variable in Java?
Static means there is only one copy of the variable in memory shared by all instances of the class.
The final keyword just means the value can't be changed.
Without final, any object can change the value of the variable.

Important
1. static var are rarely used other than being declared as final
2. static var are stored in the static memory area
3. visibility is same as instance var
4. Static fields and methods can be access by just specifying
the name of the class and name of var or method
5. in static var we define common val


Java modifiers
1) Access modifiers like private, default, protected public
2) Non-access modofoiers like final abstract static synchronized

Access modifiers:
these can be used to control the visibility of our instance var




